In the last video I made a huge deal around the fact that we can only ever require a file one single
time.
Now again you might be thinking Steven this is a lot of detail right here at the very start of learning
node but again I'm showing you this because I can just about guarantee that this is going to cause you
trouble at some point in time.
So let me show you the last step here.
This is why we care about knowing that we only run a given file exactly one time in the lifecycle of
a project.
So I'm gonna go back over to my script that J.S. file and then inside of you are going to delete everything
that I have and I'm going to declare a variable inside of here called counter and I'll start it off
at 0 then I'm going to set up a module that exports but this time rather than just exporting a simple
string or a number I'm gonna export a big object and then inside this object I'm going to set up some
different functions for viewing the value of counter and setting its value as well.
So inside this object I'll say set or about increment.
That makes more sense since increment counter.
So that's gonna be a function and any time I run that I'm going to increment counter by once I'll say
counter is counter plus 1 and I'll setup a second function on here called Get counter and as you might
guess I'm going to return the counter variable.
Now here's the key when we required this file for the very first time we're going to set up the counter
variable and we're going to declare this object and export it.
This object has a closure scope reference to the counter variable and the super important thing to understand
here is that the counter variable is only ever going to be declared exactly one time because we only
can execute the code inside of here.
One time when the file first gets required so behind the scenes we can kind of imagine that this object
right here is going to be taken and assigned into this require cache like so now I know the diagram
here now looks really ugly but hopefully you can get a sense that we now have that object inside of
our cache like so so if we now ever require in my script file a second or third or fourth time we do
not read a clear the counter variable.
Instead we're just getting back a reference to this exact same object.
So there's only ever exactly one counter variable in memory just one and it's going to be shared every
single time that we tried to require in my script JSA a additional time okay.
So let's now test this thing out and you're going to start to see some interesting behavior.
And it's not going to quite work as you might have originally expected when you first started working
with node so I gonna go back over to next dot J.S. I'm gonna delete everything inside of here again
and I'll say about counter object is require my script J.S. I'll do a console log of counter object
dot get counters or a number that is the function that's going to get us whatever the current value
is when we first run this console log at the very start of our program the counter should start off
as 0 then after that I'm going to increment the counter.
Let's do a counter object increment counter.
Like so and I'll just do another console log again right after that.
So at this point starting pretty basic let's just establish a baseline of what the counter object looks
like.
It'll save both these files and then run node index dot J.S. again.
And sure enough I get 0 and 1 which is pretty much what I expected.
Now here's the weird part.
Here's where things start to get interesting and this is where I really want you to develop a sense
of intuition of what is going on with node I'm now going to go back up to the top and copy paste that
require statement I'm going to put that second require statement underneath everything we just wrote
out.
I'm going to call the second one right here new counter object and then I'll do a console log of new
counter object get counter so in the world of JavaScript or in the world of like an infinite possibilities
so to speak.
There's really only two possible outcomes from this.
Like let's ignore everything I just told you for a second and let's imagine that you had to guess what
was going to happen when we ran this code.
The only possible results of doing this would be require the first time and running that first require
would declare the counter variable and started off as zero.
So we would then get a console log of zero we would incrementing counter by 1 and then do a console
log again of 1 and then here's the part where there's the two possibilities.
When we require in my script J.S. again either we're going to magically see that counter variable at
reset to zero or we're gonna get the exact same object with a reference to the same counter variable
that we got the first time.
In which case it would be equal to 1.
Those are the only two possibilities again just ignoring everything I just told you now I want you to
kind of guess what we're going to see here based on the discussion we've had so far.
So again decide hey either it's gonna be 0 1.
Who knows.
Let's just say this thing and run it's all run this again.
And sure enough we get 0 1 1 and this is exactly what I would expect.
So again just to put great detail here and make sure everything is crystal clear only put in the actual
actually let's just write in some code your right here.
Let's imagine that it says counter go zero.
Like so the very first time that we require in my script.
J.S. we initialize that counter variable and then we export this big object right here inside this big
object.
Every time you see the word counter that is a reference back to the variable that we just declared inside
of my script.
J.S. so there's only ever a single instance of this counter variable just one for the entire lifecycle
of our application.
Then inside of index dot J.S. we can imagine that I know this code doesn't quite match up but let's
just imagine that it's us requiring in my script once then a second time the first time require it.
We run the code inside there we get the everything assigned to the cache we get back the counter object
we increment that number by 1.
So it's now equal to 1 and then we do the second require statement.
So when we do that second require statement we're not going to magically go back into my script at J.S.
and run all that stuff again and re declare counter instead we get what ever came or whatever is currently
inside of that require cash so we get the same object that has the reference to the same counter variable
so even though you might think that because we require in my script J.S. we are getting a second or
we are executing inside everything inside of here a second time.
Again that is not what happens we get whatever is inside of our cash so that is going to be the existing
object that has a reference to the existing counter variable and so that's why we see a second console
log of the number one.
All right.
So I just want repeat repeat one more time.
I know that I'm going into tremendous detail here very quickly on all this requires stuff but I've found
that we are getting started with node getting a really good understanding of how require works at the
very start we'll really set you up for success in the long term.
In addition it's going to in the long term solve a lot of issues that might come up later on when you're
going to find that you're like requiring stuff in multiple times.
And for some crazy reason like you're not getting a new copy of an object or something like that.
So again everything gets thrown into that cache and we just get that same expert add value back again
and again and again we do not run these required files multiple times just once.
Okay.
So now that we've got a good sense on this module stuff let's take a pause right here and we're going
to continue to discuss all this.
No j ust up in the next video.